On the morning of June 20th 1830, Lord Amnerst, the first British ship to visit Shanghai was anchored at the mouth of Huangpu, two Europeans strode ashore. These men were Charles Gutzlaff, translator and missionary, and Hill Lynsay, representative of the British East India Company. Crowds gathered together to witness these so-called barbarians; though in his report Linsay mentioned cotton cloth and calico, his real objective was to sell opium. Nine years later, the opium war broke out. After the Chinese was defeated by Britain, Shanghai became one of the cities opened to foreign trade by the 1842 Treaty of Nanking, and a new city began to develop.
Shanghailanders
Until the 19th century and the first opium war, Shanghai was considered to be essentially a fishing village. However, in 1914, Shanghai had 200 banks dealing with 80% of its foreign investments in China. Citizens of many countries on all continents gathered in Shanghai to live and work in the ensuing decades. By 1932, Shanghai had become the world’s 5th largest city and home to 70,000 foreigners. Foreign residents of the city called themselves Shanghailanders. From 1842 to 1949, while the British established settlement in a section of Shanghai, the French and the American also established their own settlements; these settlements were later called concessions. World War II marked Shanghai as a destination for refugees. Between 1937 and 1939, an estimated 20,000 Jews traveled to Shanghai to flee the Nazis, Shanghai was the only city where Jews were welcome without condition. Today, the streets of the French concession and other foreign settlements had changed to become what-to-do n’ you-need avenues, while the Bund, a stretch of Western buildings is still representing the Western influence that dominated so much of the city’s history.  
General Facts
Shanghai is a city in East China; it is the largest city of the People’s Republic of China and the 8th largest city in the world. Due to its rapid growth of the last two decades, it has again become a global city; it is also known as the Paris of the East. According to the 2009 census, Shanghai has a population of about 19 millions, four times more than the people in New Zealand, registered migrants comprise of one-third of the population in 2007. However, as the most success of cities of the one-child policy, Shanghai has the lowest fertility rate in China. The main language spoken in Shanghai is Shanghainese, one of the 248 Chinese dialects identified by Wikipedia. It is gigantically different from Mandarin. If you were to say something in Shanghainese to a Beijinger, he’s bound to get a confused stroke and possibly get some eye-rolling. Shanghainese kids start learning English in the first grade, like it or not, English is now a compulsory course for all pupils in Shanghai. In a decade’s time, everyone in the city may speak English or a hybrid language of Chinese and English, known as Chinglish. 
Economy
Shanghai means on top of the sea, but the fact is, quite a lot of local Shanghainese have never seen the sea despite Shanghai is not more than one hundred miles from the Pacific Ocean; and it is not blue as you may expect, because of pollutions from factories around the Yangtze River delta. In 2005, Shanghai was termed to be the world’s largest port for cargo and it is now the world’s busiest seaport. It handled 29 million TEUs in 2010, 25% of Chinese industrial output comes from the city out of sea, and Shanghai produces 30% of China’s GDP. By the end of 2009, there were 787 financial institutions in Shanghai, of which 170 were foreign invested. In 2009, the Shanghai Stock Exchange ranked third among worldwide stock exchanges in terms of traded volume and trading volume of six key commodities including rubber, copper and zinc under Shanghai Future Exchange all ranked first across the world. Shanghai is now ranked 5th in the latest edition of the Global Financial Center Index published by the city of London.
Urban Development
One uniquely Shanghainese cultural element is the SHI Ku Men residences, which is a two or three storey townhouses. The Shi Ku Men is a cultural blend of elements found in Western architecture, traditional Chinese architecture and social behavior. Today, many of the area with classic Shi Ku Men stood had been redeveloped for modern Shanghai, with only a few areas remaining. During the 1990s, Shanghai had the largest agglomeration of construction cranes; since 2008, Shanghai has boasted more free standing buildings for 400 meters than any other cities, The Shanghai World Financial Center is currently the third tallest building in the world; in the future, the Shanghai Tower, straight to completion in 2014, will be the tallest in China. Meanwhile, Shanghai is sinking at a rate of 1.5cm a year. Shanghai’s rapid transit system, Shanghai Metro, extends to every core neighbor districts in and to every suburban district. As of 2010, there were12 metro lines, 273 stations and over 420 km of tracks in operation, making it the largest network in the world.         
And the shuttle maglev train linking the airport to the city center built in 2004 is the world’s fastest passenger train, reaching a maximum cruising speed of 431 km per hour. Shanghai has the largest bus system in the planet with 1424 bus lines.